---
layout: post
title: Reflection
subtitle: reflective piece
categories: unit 12
tags: [Assignment, unit]
---

## Unit 12  - Refection 

<H2>Reflection on Module: </H2>

<Github web page : sudeshnaidoo.github.io
<Repository: sudeshnaidoo/sudeshnaidoo.github.io

<p>The Security and Risk module provided an encompassing and enriching education on all elements a manager should be aware of if one was in this role. I am an IT/ cyber risk manager and was expecting this module to cover more operational elements such as what I encounter at my current workplace.  After the first week, I was hesitant over whether I needed to apply for an exemption for this module.  With hindsight, I am extremely thankful that I did not act on that initial response and continued to put my focus and effort into this module.  The course content from module one  to twelve were interesting, enlightening and covered varied learnings that would assist and provide guidance in performing  various activities from a cyber assessment to a traditional operational risk assessment.</p>
<p>The collaborative discussions were engrossing and helped clarify main points that caused me to think more deeply about reviewing assessments such as CVSS and similar. Being exposed to different viewpoints on these topics also allowed a broader depth in terms of the module and how individuals were applying the content in their everyday work lives or perceptions.  The discussions changed my mindset on the direction of research I could explore, and the manner in which I resolved related issues.  Towards the end I could gauge that more thought is required when using predetermined assessments on systems and applications as there are known short comings which are not disclosed within the  assessment itself.</p>
<p>Threat modeling was a lot more fascinating based on my line of work,  and showed me a deeper path that one could take when analyzing security threats and vulnerabilities whilst incorporating it into working models. The quantitative and qualitative modeling took some extra reading and effort and challenged my knowledge; it was different but enlightening to be honest as it revealed the need to expand on my capabilities or consider working with other members in a team to create impactful analysis.  It also emphasized how I should work and that is within my strengths, although it was nice to know how the Monte Carlo systems and other quantitative models worked.  Thinking further along, I would rather do a qualitative assessment for my thesis.</p>
<p>The module on standards showed that the the main standards we use at work are current, practical and applicable.  PCI DSS is a very critical standard in terms of security and risk and quite detailed in terms of requirements when an assessment is done correctly and completely.  Many of these controls that one looks for in a PCI DSS assessment could also apply to a GDPR analysis, such as the encryption in storage and transport, as well as the obfuscation requirements that could be leveraged. In South Africa we have taken guidance from the GDPR and implemented the POPI Act, which many companies are still battling to get to grips with. Technical security controls have been more of a focus instead of the education and understanding of other mitigating controls that impact on GDPR.  Of greater interest to me, was the reading material around the various ISO Standards as well as the variants to it in terms of ISO27000 range (inclusive of ISO27001, 27018, 27032) all very relevant to across all industries and sectors. </p>
<p>The Group Project was a variation, despite working within a team at work, you technically spend more time working on your deliverables solely.  Having to work on one deliverable through a group exercise is a different experience and is a sometimes a challenging task as all individuals align their thinking to achieve the same goal.  The group project allowed me to get to know some of the other students in my class, their personal and professional backgrounds as well as their reasons for signing up for this degree. What did become obvious though was that we were lucky to be grouped together, we were all like minded in terms of taking the module and assignment seriously and wanting to do well.  As such the group were mature enough and focused  to complete the task at hand.  Just a few online messages and one zoom call, we successfully completed the assignment and achieved a very good mark - I was glad that I had this opportunity within this group.</p>
<p>My final task revolved around the GitHub repository.  At the start of the Module, I had reviewed all potential assignments and planned around them, noting that this repository was necessary submission. In the previous modules I tried Github but never got it to render correctly. In this case I had to read a bit more and trouble shoot a lot.  I was pleasantly surprised, challenged and stressed in putting this part together when I had to work on this task.  In my first few attempts I added a new skin to the GitHub pages and consequently corrupted the repository. I got to a stage, where I had to sit back, take a deep breath and focus 100% to redo it to achieve the satisfactory output I desired.   My joy in seeing the final outcome was really unbelievable and empowering.</p>
<p>This module proved to be the most educational and informative, thought provoking in terms of the actual landscape in which I operate.  It broadened my horizons personally in terms of areas I could incorporate into my professional day to day tasks, and improve the security and risk posture of my department and workplace.   It also allowed me to think out of my comfort zone and create a confidence in my own ability to grow myself personally and professionally.  I would like to take a moment to thank the university and the team responsible for the course content that allows even an experienced professional expand its ability to add value in the workplace.</p>
